a little bit about me i've been a
community builder for about 10 years now
i've dedicated my whole career to um
being a community professional and i've
done a lot with sas companies as well i
was at atlassian and built the atlassian
user group program moved to salesforce
and i was running the trailblazer
community there which is mvp programs
user group program online community
and then now i'm at venifi we are a
security company that focuses on machine
identity management building a community
there from scratch which is really
exciting to get back to my roots and
then also i've hired and led community
teams focused on community management
and community ops i'll talk about that a
tiny bit um so really um
experience experience runs the gamut
there um and i'm really excited to share
some of that knowledge with you today
start with the what you're here probably
because you've heard something about
community or you know community or maybe
you know nothing about community so what
what the hell is it
a lot of people define community in a
completely different way this is how i
define it especially for an enterprise
company a sas company and that's a group
of individuals connected through a
network of platforms programs resources
and a shared set of values these give
your audience the power to build
together support one another contribute
to business goals and find their paths
to success alongside other members of
your community
don't say i didn't warn you that i got
completely carried away with the gifts
um but this actually has a purpose
because i think this is very
representative of a buzzing thriving
community you've got lots of different
characters and audiences and they're all
you know getting what they want to out
of the community some are getting help
from each other some are networking some
are making connections you know
everybody kind of does their own thing
and gets the value out of it and finds
their purpose in the community um and
you won't get everybody to do the same
thing and you definitely won't get
everyone to do the same thing at the
same time but that's okay that's what
this is all about
community is your people connecting to
each other over a shared set of
interests and values and your company is
the glue that sticks them together i
cannot stress how important this is
community is not an opportunity for you
to build you know your connection or
your channel with your customers or
audiences it's really about them
connecting to one another that's where
they're going to see the value and
that's where you'll get the most value
out of it too
it would just be another marketing
channel otherwise so really really
important to make sure that this is what
you're focused on
all right the who
anybody can really be a part of your
community you think about all of your
audiences you know in the previous
slides i kept using words like people
and audiences and not customers because
obviously a lot of people gravitate to
customers first but you have a lot of
options when it comes to audiences in
your community think about partners or
developers that are building on your
platform um thought leaders in your
industry kind of runs the gamut there
and it's really anybody who cares about
the work that you're doing they're
invested in the work you're doing and
the problems that you're trying to solve
now what i say build for every single
one of your audiences right off the bat
absolutely not that's a terrible idea
you need to prioritize the audiences
that you want to work with but it can
really include everybody
and it's a good idea to include
everybody because bringing your
audiences together brings a lot of value
to everybody in those audiences you can
definitely create different experiences
very um specific experiences for those
different audiences
but it's really great to also have a
space where everybody can connect
partners talking to customers or talking
to developers because they're all
connected around your business
so i'm gonna try not to spend a ton of
time on the y even though obviously i'm
very passionate about why community is
important i'm gonna stick
to the facts here i actually have a sip
of water
so
you can see there's roi across your
whole business it touches
every part of your business you can see
all of the different um teams here in
your organization and ways that they see
value from community
because of that you can be very
thoughtful about where you put community
in your organization for me at venifi i
report directly to our ceo and that
gives me the flexibility to um to build
our community focus and our community
goals tied to our top-level business
goals you know i think about the
uh the things we're trying to achieve as
a business the pain points that we're
trying to solve and being able to
leverage the community for those
different pieces is extremely important
and so
you know if you put community in
something like support or marketing of
course your goals are going to be more
um you know focused on on those
different teams because you're in the
support team so you're focused on you
know the things related to that with a
marketing team but if you're top level
goals you really can bring the power of
community up to what your company is
focused on and that doesn't mean you
don't see value across the board for all
of these things but you get to
prioritize your time and resources on
the things that are going to matter most
to the business
i want to dig into some numbers for a
little bit i've shared these before
different disaster event but i don't
think i can share them enough because
they're pretty incredible this is from a
community that i used to lead
so driving growth in roi we saw for
members of the community two times more
pipeline two times bigger deals 33
higher product adoption and three times
lower attrition
then when it comes to support costs
there were 4 000 questions that were
answered in the community um like in a
community forum 83 of those were
answered by other members of the
community and we calculated that that
was two million dollars a month in
support savings and you know obviously
for a community just starting or a small
community
this is not going to be what you see
this is for a huge community but it is
something to strive towards and so you
can really see the impact here that the
community had on our business
and then of course amplifying success
for your audiences whoever your
audiences are so we surveyed the members
of our community and 93 said they
discovered new products and solutions in
the community 81 said they saw higher
productivity in themselves because they
were part of the community and then 82
saw an increase in their roi they bought
our product and the community helped
helped increase that return for them
community is an integral part of your
business strategy it's no longer a nice
to have
it is a must-have
i'll leave it at that that's an
explanation
all right the win
i think you knew that i was probably
going to go in this direction for the
win but it is time to do this now it's
table sticks at this point
even if you are a small business you're
just starting out you don't have to
launch this huge community you can start
small and that is actually the way i
would recommend that you start so think
about ways and opportunities that you
can connect your
your audiences to each other in a
meaningful way even if it's just a few
people to start and then you can start
building with them you know get their
feedback on what you're building into
the community because it's for them
right so they'll be able to you know
participate in that and when they do
that they will feel such a sense of
ownership over that community that they
will be your fiercest advocates in the
community and they will be the people
that are engaging and recruiting people
into the community because of that sense
of ownership so start building right now
even if it's small um even if you're you
know not even launched yet there's a lot
of opportunity there
community is not going anywhere y'all
it's been around for a long time but now
that we have proven
quantifiable long-term success with
community tons of companies are just
so excited about it can't get it fast
enough because you can see the examples
out in the world where community has
been really impactful for business you
know when i started 10 years ago those
those success metrics didn't really
exist and now they do everybody sees the
value a lot of people see the value so
they're pushing forward with community
and then the pandemic came along also
and so all of these events that weren't
happening
what were you gonna do there still need
to be a way for your customers or your
audiences to connect with each other and
that's where community came in in a big
way also
the community industry is booming now
we're seeing way more community products
being built than i've ever seen and way
more um
opportunities job opportunities for
people in the community field with that
being said community hiring is extremely
competitive right now i probably get
five to ten recruiters that reach out to
me every month um and i don't see any
any um
i don't think it's gonna slow down
the how
so i can't totally dig into the how
because there's a lot that goes into
building a community and i've been doing
it for 10 years and i still learn
something new every day but i will give
you some tips for building a successful
community
the first one is to hire an experienced
community professional i've seen so many
businesses that make the mistake of just
kind of adding community to somebody's
already full plate or
hiring or promoting an executive that
has zero community experience
that is it's very tricky because it will
slow you down but also puts you at risk
because there are a lot of parts of
community that people need to know how
to react to
and without expertise um it's just a bit
of a more
tricky situation so thinking about that
you know
if you are going to hire a head of
engineering
would you hire someone that didn't have
any technical expertise
no
same goes for community that expertise
is extremely extremely valuable
now i'm saying this right after i just
went through a slide of saying it's very
hard to hire for community right now one
of the things that makes it very hard to
hire for community is that a lot of
recruiters and hiring managers don't
really know how to form the roles or
write the job descriptions um and so
it's become you know a little bit tricky
i always see some really interesting job
descriptions for community roles and
because i'm me i always write back to
the recruiter and i'm like yeah you know
what this is wrong so anyway they love
me i'm sure but um you know there's some
options there one thing that i would
recommend doing is bringing in a
community consultant there are some
amazing community strategists that have
their own consultancies now because the
business is booming so um bringing
someone like that in with that expertise
can help you better
you know mold what the role is going to
look like craft the job description
brief your recruiters or you can even
have them sit in on your interview panel
i actually uh did that i volunteered for
a pledge one percent foundation when
they were building out their community
and hiring someone to lead it since they
didn't have community expertise on their
team i was able to help with the job
description and join for their interview
panel and it was great for me and i
think that it was really helpful for
them as well the other piece of this is
that it's very hard to hire for senior
community managers there aren't senior
community professionals there aren't a
ton of people that have been doing this
a really long time
so what i would recommend if you can't
find someone super senior look for
someone that has you know four or five
years of experience bring in a community
consultant and the community consultant
can really
build and you know
build and drive the strategy and work
with your hire who's going to execute on
that strategy and they can work on
milestones together it's a great
opportunity for whoever you hire because
they're getting you know this built-in
career growth and this built-in learning
um and then you know community
consultant can really you know make sure
that they're checking all the boxes
along the way so i think that's a really
good option right now since it's a
little bit hard to come by and there's
some great community consultants out
there
community is an investment and i know
you know if you are leading a team or
leaving a business everybody is always
asking for head count and money but
here i am saying you need head count and
money for a successful community you
know i'm not saying that when you first
start community you need to spend
hundreds of thousands of dollars because
that is absolutely not true and a waste
but you know as your community grows
you're gonna have to keep adding to that
investment and you have to think about
time and you have to think about
headcount and you have to think about
budget you know it's not free um it
certainly seems like it may be expensive
but once you start seeing the success
metrics come back from the community
you'll realize that it's actually very
inexpensive for what you're getting in
return so a great example is like the
two million dollars in support tickets
that's amazing a month or um when i was
at salesforce i ran the user group
program and we had 500 meetups that were
happening every
month all around the world think for a
second about how much money it would
cost you or what you would have to do as
a business to be able to have 500 events
all around the world every single month
so it does seem expensive community
platforms are expensive you know hiring
community professionals you know you
need to do all of this but you are
investing in the future success of your
community
the other thing is something that i
touched on which is aligning your
community goals with your top level
goals i think that's very important for
you to see um the best and most diverse
success from community before you can
even get there though i look at goals in
like two different buckets first bucket
is community health and that is growth
engagement community sentiment
all of these things around is your
community healthy is your community
growing and thriving and then the other
bucket is the business goals
you can't even start to focus on the
business goals until you've really
focused in this area on the health goals
and it takes some time you know you
really have to
build this foundation before you can
look at business goals and now as your
community is building and growing you
might see
some business you know roi but that's
not really where you want to focus it's
got to be over here or you're not really
setting yourself up for success before
you can get people to you know engage in
the ways that bring you value you have
to get them to want to engage and get
there in the first place so very
important and then the next one is
getting everybody on board your exec
team needs to understand what community
is and they need to be able to speak
about community because building a
community and running a community it
requires participation and it requires
support from everybody at your company
and so making sure that they really
understand it and that they're
prioritizing it every team should have a
goal that's shared with community across
the board on the exact team because
there's other teams that you don't even
think about that you really need to work
with to build a community like
accounting or legal and they have to be
putting that you know in their top level
goals so they're
resourced appropriately for it they know
it's coming and they're planning for it
too because what i've seen in the past
is when those goals aren't prioritized
or there's not exact level leadership
support all the community stuff always
gets pushed to the back burner because
if i'm
you know on a marketing team and i've
got these six things i have to do and
then oh i helped out with the community
i've got to focus on what my goals are
set for so it's very important that
everybody's on the same page with that
so you can get the support that you need
across the business
trust is really everything in a
community and building building that
trust is is hard and then if you lose
that trust it is very hard to earn that
trust back um so you know really be
thoughtful about that as you're building
your community part of that is you know
your tone with the community have a more
casual tone than you do in all of your
business communications these are your
people you can be authentic with them
you can
admit when you all make a mistake or you
need to fix something like as long as
you are open and honest and authentic
with them they will always advocate for
you they will hear you out
and they will be
you know your cheerleaders on the side
too so definitely keep this in mind
because it's one of the most important
things that you can do and you know when
i say that you could lose trust from
from your community i think an example
is that it's not like
you know you're running a marketing
campaign it doesn't work so you pull
back you can't really just throw stuff
out in the community and then pull it
back because
people either invest in their time and
whatever you've thrown out there or they
run into issues with it so you have to
be really really thoughtful about that
it takes planning and being careful and
time once again
in the beginning you have to expect to
give a lot more than you get the
beginning stages of building a community
are very high touch not everything is
scalable in the beginning but that's
really important because that's where
you build your trust with your community
so you have to expect that you are going
to give a lot and it is going to take a
while but it will be worth it you have
to prove that there is value for the
members of your community to be there
and to give their time to your community
before you really start seeing them you
know ramp up what they're doing in your
community and giving back
real quick on these um build with
authentic intentions please do not build
a community so you can sell or market at
the people in your community like i said
you need to offer real value where
people are just they're gonna bow out
they have no interest in that uh next is
folding your company values and culture
into your community this is really
important the foundation of any
successful community is going to be
intrinsic motivation people that care
about connecting people that care about
giving back and the best way to
influence that you know obviously you
can't create that but you can influence
it by bringing your company's values and
culture into your community because
that's what's going to bring people
together is a shared set of values when
people are exemplifying those values in
the community call them out reward them
somehow it doesn't have to be swag
i have a whole other
i won't go off on this tangent but i
have a whole other um framework around
community incentivization and there's a
lot that you can do and most importantly
there's a lot you could do without
buying them stuff it's least important
to them
and then of course the last thing is
have fun don't take yourself too
seriously
these people are spending their you know
their personal time in your community
helping each other out connecting with
other people
make it an enjoyable experience for them
you know again like you don't have to be
so serious all the time you can have a
more casual tone that's what people want
you know they want to have fun in this
space then make sure that the space is
welcoming too and be very purposeful
about how you think about
diversity and inclusion in your
community because if you want it to be a
welcoming space then you have to be very
intentional about um how you build your
community and how you're thinking about
making it a very welcoming and inclusive
community for everyone
and gifts are pretty cool so if you want
to do that it's cool too
uh i cannot get into this
completely because we just don't have
time we definitely don't have time for
that uh but i just want you to kind of
have a high level view of some of the
things that it takes to get a community
started it is a crazy amount of work and
this goes back to resourcing it um and
this goes back to knowing that it's
going to take some time to build so it's
pretty clear when you look at this that
you need time to build it and that you
need the right resources and need the
right headcount so i recommend if you
really want to build a community then
you need to start with at least two
people it's really a good way to go i
mean unless you're very small that's not
a hard and fast rule but if you look at
all of these things that have to happen
it's a little tricky to imagine them all
being done by one person and i have
tried it's tricky because if you look at
the community like a product then you've
got the same person that is the product
manager that is
that is fixing the bugs that is
supporting the product hr team uh
marketing you know building out the
content i could go on and on and on so
really thinking about bringing in at
least two people to start one person's
really focused on uh strategy and
success metrics and then the other
person is focused on executing on that
strategy they'll be crossover of course
because when you're just building a
community everybody has to roll up their
sleeves and really you know get in there
and moderate and all of that good stuff
but um that's how you really will set
yourself up for success is really really
intentional and thoughtful about that
and again this is like
tip of the iceberg for what needs to
happen to launch a community
and that's it voila you have your
community right
no
communities like planting a new garden
you need expertise the right tools
thoughtful planning and time for the
seeds to grow before your garden will
bear fruit
i
i'd like to say this is pretty
self-explanatory but what i've heard as
feedback often is that execs will say
well if we could just you know can we
pay more to get it out faster you know
what can we do
i don't know
if
you've ever tried this but i can't
really throw a lot of money at a plant
or send a cash app payment and expect
the tulip is going to grow because i
threw money at the bulb right it's the
exact same thing here sure you may be
you know there's there's some things
that you could maybe do a little bit
faster with more money but you have to
invest the time it's not just going to
magically appear you can't spend more
money to do it you just have to be
patient and let it grow and you know
care for it as it's growing as well
these are my top takeaways hopefully i'm
doing okay on time these are my top
takeaways um i covered all of them in
the previous slides but just want to
make sure that um you can kind of get a
look at them and i know they're going to
share
all of these decks um after today so um
yeah quick look at those and then that's
it i wanted to save as much time as i
could for questions um but really fast
before we go to questions um you can
follow me on twitter it's at holly
firestone or i share a ton of content on
my blog which is on medium and it's for
qualifiers
hiring leading teams
all that good stuff too
[Music]
you